thank you so much you've always been so
helpful with your guidance and it's
generous you and your guests uh really
big impact thank you good to hear and
the winds uh the weekly webinars are
great my question for a large Enterprise
SAS uh sales team yeah the AE ramp
planning assumption is six months do you
have any advice that's a stressor isn't
it do you have any advice on moving it
to five what what might we suggest and
do next oh I know to move it to
five um and listen I know this is going
to sound trite this is what a great vpa
sales does until then can't do
it there's no there are no shortcuts but
a great if you do you have a great vpa
sales today yes that that should be her
job take a month off
it because what a great vpa sales does
is create more urgency a great VP sales
listens more a great VP sales start
talks to more stakeholders earlier in
the process a great vpa sales realizes
that even though Jason inbounded on your
form Jason's not the buyer Jason's never
going to write a check you you've got to
get to Jim or J or Julia or Johnson the
junior a is like oh I got this great
deal that came in inbound it's a million
dollars a year but it's it's the wrong
person right there's a million things a
vpa sales will do to bring to cut your
sales Cycles on the order of 20 to 30%
but not half it's not possible you can't
accelerate procurement you can't
accelerate Discovery past a certain
point if you need to do five Discovery
calls with seven stakeholders you can't
do that in an hour it can't be done but
I guarantee you if like a great VPS
sales should increase at least some
things quickly 20% make things 20%
better maybe for yours it's not sales
Cycles like maybe they're better at
something else that's okay but I will
tell you in my experience one of the
first when a vpa sales comes in they
know time the enemy of deals right so if
you bring in a deal quicker it has a
higher chance of closing right and they
know that how to create urgency when it
doesn't exist right and they know how to
quickly identify who matters in a deal
and who doesn't just add those three
factors together Sal cycle shorten they
know right and they know time's the
enemy of deals thank
you Jason appreciate you um around 11
million NR congratulations uh bought the
company a few years ago we have one
person in sales uh like a consultant
100% inbound we're just about to hire
first VP of sales so it's mostly
self-served or how do you do it with one
person like it's a consultative engineer
who uh does the does 11 million of sales
herself it's it's ARR so it's like a
15-year-old company okay okay so the
growth slow okay yeah growth is slow
okay just hiring the first one I know
you mentioned that we should have two
AES you got to have two you have to but
we are doing the flip because we don't
have um a salesperson this guy's so I
have to have two so we're going to hire
the sales person and then sales people
the two we Hing no you Mard me two we're
hiring the VP first I know we're doing
the flip side so I'm just wondering it's
listen you're at 11 million it's very
risky but you can hire the VP of
Salesforce you have you you may not have
an established sales process but you
certainly have an established business
right so I get it so you're gonna hire
the head of sales first okay so how long
would you wait to hire the 2 AES would
you hire them immediately or would you
have this person can you can you afford
the 2 a could okay so here's here's my
evolved here's my evolved answer and
I've been thinking about this a lot lat
I'm going to update my a classic saster
post on
it you can hire you have 11 million
Revenue so you can hire the VP Sals you
don't need to hire a kid first right
they've got to carry a bag and they've
got to
a significant amount of Revenue
themselves and then hire two that's my
question they have to hire two how much
revenue and how
long if if you're hopefully not much
more than a quarter because you're
running out of time if it's more than a
quarter right I listen I have there's
something I wrote a long time ago that
got misconstrued so I got I got to
deeply update it soon I wrote a long
time ago
that and now I'm going to put some
asteris and daggers next to it I wrote a
long time ago that in some senses like
too many Founders get cheap in the early
days and they want a VP sales and not
only be the VP sales but hold a full
quota right so they can pay for
themselves that doesn't work you can't
even in this day of side hustles and
multi- hustles and everyone running a
real estate business on the side and
courses on the side as a sales leader
you cannot own a full quota and manage
eight reps it's not possible if you
can't afford it you can't afford it so
what I said years ago was look whether
they should they hold the quota should
when they start or not sometimes yes but
it can't last forever right and that is
true today but people somewhat
misconstrued that to think it doesn't
matter if they ever hold the bag what I
have learned is if they already know the
product if they're already a customer if
they've already sold it sure like they
could just be a manager but I think 80%
of VPS of sales today should close when
they start 80 to 90 they got to close
and now ideally it's just a quarter or
two and then they and then they assist
Deals they join deals with their team
because if you if you ask them to close
themselves without any help for too long
you will run out you can never grow
right but I would I would either ask
them to hold a full quota or half a
quota for a quarter close two three four
deals and then bring in Jack Jane Jill
Joe and Julia to fill it out but but the
mistake I see and I'm going to rewrite
this to be clear I see this again I was
just talking with the co out here at 15
million in AR that I know who made this
mistake he hired a VP sales that I know
that's pretty good okay and it's a it's
a complicated product it's not technical
but it's very complicated workflow so he
hired a VP sales that actually was good
but came from a slightly less
complicated industry so that's hard you
want to hire someone always from
something that was a little harder or
more complicated that's the other cheat
code in sales it doesn't have to be 10
times hire someone from a little harder
more complicated and it'll be like
gravity is lower at your startup it will
be easier for them I'll tell you a story
in a minute if you hire someone from
something that is great but easier to
sell and yours is harder they will fail
almost always okay so this vpa sales
came in to a product he sold a product
that was medium hard to sell to one that
was more complicated and he never sold
himself he hired 5
AES okay and I like this VP of sales he
closed nothing in the first six months
he never learned it himself and he could
never train his reps and he never closed
anything the first five or six months
nothing yeah just a follow up do you
have an opinion on solution engineering
as a department within the sales team to
sit if it's a super technical sale like
10 out of
10 uh one way or another you need a
solution architect department whether
that's the CEO or the CTO in the early
days which is often the case um whether
it's sometimes the customer success team
will play that role whether you grab one
of your top Engineers to do it the
reality is if you have a technical sale
there's always a solution architect
solution engineer sales engineer in
there they're always in there once in a
while you'll get an AE that was an
engineer themselves so they're wearing
two hats but even if they're wearing two
hats here's the learning there's always
a sales engineer in the deal so you got
to fig now do they have to have the
title like no sometimes if someone else
on the team can do it great but the
biggest mistake in technical sales is
when you hire a generic AE and don't put
anyone no solution of any
form no no chance right listen to their
gong calls you're going to you're going
to like blow your brains out when you
listen to the dumb things they say like
does your product wait what's an API
again I think our yeah our API does
that yeah a hook web we we might have
those I think I think we do which of the
socks do you want we have all the socks
sock 12 of course we've got all we've
got all you're like and and if you're
especially if you're selling to like a
VP avenge or CTO they're going to see
through that in three seconds they're
going to they're going to just click
click X on the zoom and be out of there
right than
yeah uh hey I'm Christina I'm the
founder of uh one schema thanks for
coming yeah thanks um so we've been
thinking a lot about product road map
lately and a lot of companies invest in
multiple product lines on their pth to
100 million AR we talked a lot about
that here Spencer from amplitude did
Jack from Lis it was a big theme we
talked a lot about AI this year but
multiproduct was the subtle theme right
but Nick talked about it from gain side
at the end yeah it can be incredibly
distracting for both your engineering
and product team and your goto Market
team to juggle multiple value
propositions customer types um and
potentially neglect your core product so
how do you know when is the right time
to invest in a new product line are
there any red flags for when it's
obviously the wrong time and how do you
think about what is fundamentally a new
product line versus a very large feature
a lot of really good questions that
could be a whole session right um Let me
give my overly simplistic answer to all
this
um 100,000 10,000 100,000 10,000 now let
me
explain no matter what you do you're
going to hit some Tam issues people talk
about multiproduct but the main reason
great Founders talk about it like
Spencer and Jack is because they're
starting to exhaust the market for their
initial product right right it's not a
weapon or to make more it's because
they're worried that once you approach
10% market share in your not not in the
whole world but in your core ICP your
core Market it starts to slow down at
10% the good news is your brand picks up
at 10% people have heard of you they
love you so it starts to feel it's it's
weird as you cross 10% market share
because it's both easier and harder the
good news is you're in every deal you're
in every deal but the good news is for
reasons you're not sure of things are
still slowing down not radically it's a
weird thing you're in every deal but
it's getting it's because you're
exhausting your micro tamam your initial
Tam and in Enterprise it's often around
100 customers in a group in midmarket
it's 1,000 and in SMB you're lucky to
get to 10,000 customers without hitting
significant headwinds okay so my my
rough way too rough rules are Enterprise
mid-market SMB before you get even
halfway to 100 a th000 or 10,000 you
better have a plan to go multiproduct or
you will you will not go to zero but you
will slow down due to Tam exhaustion
right so that those are my numbers but
obviously Enterprise is a smaller
Universe with bigger deal so once as you
approach those not cross them approach
them you will exhaust your T that's the
tact and I've um you know and I've seen
we've we've gotten you know when we did
saster annual 2017 in Bill Graham it's
funny we didn't know this and I did two
sessions back toback I did Jeff Lawson
Co of twilio and Peter gastner of Eva
who had just gone multiproduct and that
that was very Innovative at the time
because they were smaller right they
were they were both Crossing coming up
on 200 million in seeing these issues
right and but now it's well understood
you it h you have to do it um but to
answer your question if you do it before
Tam exhaustion you may be stressing the
team too much you've got to get good at
it you what what you want to go in SAS
is from nothing to mini brand to Brand
mini brand is when the viral Word of
Mouth Loops in you start to get pulled
into deals magic you don't know why you
get an inbound hey I heard of you from
my friend Bob or Elena or you know I was
at my last company um I was at gain and
went to vital and I want to bring you in
that's like a mini brand like you know
the world hasn't heard of you but like
in your core ICB they start to hear
about you that's magic because you start
to get this inbound viral Loop and then
as you become a real brand it gets
you're in every deal like not everyone
picks sales horse for Crum that's here
but everyone kicks the everyone thinks
everyone at least talks about it don't
they they're in every deal so you want
to get there because life gets easier
but as soon as you get there you're
exhausting your
Dam so that's your job as a founder is
not to go too early because you'll burn
the team out and so you've got to do
this am I approaching 10% market share
not in the notional world not every
restaurant in the world not every SMB
you've got to be your job as a Founder
is to be very rigorous and in this case
toine your Tam narrowly like your core
ICP where you get the majority of your
revenue and are we approaching 10%
market share you better have a second
product by that point Thank You
y hi Jason nice to meet you my name is
Wayne I'm I'm my first time founder of a
generative AI startup it's finding that
my question is pretty similar to the
previous one but potentially from
different angle okay uh a great context
is that we help businesses create their
AI avatars and videos so they can scale
up their video it's a it's a good space
it's a hot space right now y so the
question is really simple but we've been
really struggling with that a bit like
do we go horizontal or vertical so
facing the possibility of using AI to
create videos there's a lots of kind of
sub use cases yes like each one of them
makes sense There's real customers
asking us to do that and we definitely
would want to try because no one else is
doing that and we have the Competitive
Edge of doing us you know first mover
Advantage we try some of them they
actually also work well but the problem
is that after we do two or three of them
our product becomes kind of weird you
know it's like one product for not only
one thing but like like two or three
things so it's like it's getting hard to
describe that but
it's it's like that's a problem that's
the problem with the horizontal platform
if it's hard to describe it's tough
right right so it's a it's a simple
question about we've been thinking back
and forth all the time we've been
growing okay but we don't know if it's a
good you know uh decision to say okay
let's focus let's stay ler Focus people
say or let's continue to expand to
really do Horizon look I don't know the
answer look it's one of the great if you
build a broad-based platform especially
one that has a self-service element
right right you want to be horizontal
you want to be Zoom or slack or canva
like because that's the biggest ham of
course you want to be horiz and as as
product Builders we also kind of enjoy
horizontal products right um but even
horizontal products have segments where
they outperform right and and if you
again if you went to the monday.com
session with Iran the first day they
built a horizontal platform at Monday
but once they started doing uh Facebook
marketing and they found that insurance
churches uh construction were the ones
that performed so they lean the hell in
right and so look I think the the
conceit the the the founder arrogance or
conceit is that you can be totally
horizontal because even in horizontal
you're going to have verticals and
industries that want to use you right
and and you got to get to 1 million then
you got to get to 10 million you got to
get and you got to get momentum and it's
in in and even these horizontal
platforms are when you look when you
peek behind the you'll often hear a
story that a loom really performed in
this area or slack took off with
developers early became it performing in
broader I would if you love horizontal
and you believe that's your future I
would I would build an elegant easy to
use onboarded plg self-served product
that is magical that is beautiful that
is elegant for Content or whatever
you're doing and then wherever you have
any concentration of customers I would
lean the hell in like a
vertical it's not either or right and
going too horizontal is a dream because
you still have to find um the the areas
the areas of strength where you're
relative you're no matter what you say
everyone's feature por at this stage
right and everyone also has a magical
feature or you wouldd have no customers
so you've got to do that 2 by two of
where feature por is okay because I have
a magical feature and you got to Lean
Like Hell in there and then and then if
you do I'll give you one last bit ofice
related to the prior question of
multiproduct the biggest mistake I see
from like
2ish million to 10 million that Founders
make is they over diversify they cross a
couple million of Revenue they finally
have something it's more than beer money
it's real and they're like okay well
we're strong in insurance or we're I
want to do all these other things it's
too early you have rarely exhausted your
Tam at 2 million from 2 to 10 all you
want to do is double down on what's
working get better and better and better
as you cross 10 million or so roughly
then go back more horizontal maybe for
you it's horizontal to Vertical to
horizontal
even though we don't all think about
horizontal to Vertical to horizontal but
I think that's really the way most of us
work because you got to focus once you
have something and put almost all your
energy into what's working um and then
when you're when you have some fat on
the system when you have extra Engineers
extra salespeople extra Capital then you
can do more experiments and you can
invest in things that are that are more
expensive or have lower Roi right but on
the march to 10 don't do it goly thank
you thank you so
much hi Jason uh my name is chased I'm
the chief period officer at san. us
thanks for coming I practically stalked
you online on LinkedIn and Twitter good
I love a good stalker good here uh we've
been building uh a B2B just say Asana
for black period uh we building an
employee productivity to for women in
the workplace who want to manage
vertical vertical Asana manage their
menstrual Matana mental health and we've
been able to at least see that we're in
the preed stage and currently uh our
secret uh we wanted to be able to ask
you for your secret s to be able to
support preed uh Founders because truly
there sudden startups who will
continuously get this funding uh because
startups are not able to at least um
write the same language that investors
are looking out for the struggle to come
for conferences like this and even
getting the right uh investment or
flights and hotel to be able to be
participant of assessing theive it's is
really ridiculous and we see ourselves
like very resilient to doing this but
want to be able to ask you your secret
source to be able to at least see for
this sasal fund to be able to support
preed funding and we would love to
invite you to torso CLA thank you well
look I'm going to I'll give a quick for
me I personally when I invest I don't
invest before 10K Mr I don't do any
preed because I'm not smart enough I
want to see 10 customers 15 customers I
think my secret sauce as a SAS founder
that is passionate about good a market
is if you're a great founder and you
have 50 customers or 40 I'm pretty good
at figuring out if you can get to 4,000
I'm pretty pretty darn good at that
figuring out if you can go from 0 to 10
customers my track record is muddled at
best so I don't I don't ever do it as a
as an investor I'm very narrow um to the
broader point of
this chicken in the egg issue how do I I
I I don't I'm not I don't have traction
I I I I didn't come out of stripe I
don't have the perfect connections it's
unfair how do I get this preced funding
right um
it is
unfair uh and the the real answer is
look it sucks and the only answer is one
to raise to if you really need money
find angels and I mean angels in the
traditional sense Angels because you
have not you have you haven't taken off
yet right so there's nothing for a
traditional Financial investor to sink
their teeth into if you come to me and
you're at 10K Mr and you're tripling and
you have cool stuff I can sink my my
teeth into something I don't care where
you went to college or who you know or
whether you went through YC or St I
don't personally I don't care about any
of that but I need some everyone needs
something to sink their teeth into
except an angel and that's why as unfair
as it is why did the Stanford and MIT
graduates so effortlessly get capital
and I don't care where anyone go to
college I don't think I've invested any
but it's not irrational because it's
some it's some indicator it's something
uh why you know I was speaking with
Michael cbol from White combinator
because he was here this morning 85% of
their batch get funded and they hit
their funding Target 80 you know why
it's 85% well one most of them are
pretty smart there's a filter but for
investors it's helpful because it's a
sign like a lot of them are going to
fail but you know what came out of what
came out good some good stuff came out
of why combinator so the earlier you are
you got to look for some kind of sign
you got to look for something and
privilege sucks and being a stripe uh
Alum is unfair and coming out of YC is
unfair and coming out of Stanford it's
all it is unfair it is not fair and I
don't have the answers because the early
are you got to look for something it is
too risky to invest early unless you are
genuinely genuinely an angel so it's it
may take you two years to raise this
money you may have to talk to every
person on planet Earth because you
aren't the Stanford YC strip Alum
perfect everything grad who also closed
100 million at Salesforce and and was
the secret co-founder of Dropbox you're
not that and I and it's not fair but I
know this is hard to hear for folks it's
not designed to be fair here's the last
thing people think that Venture is
supposed to be fair it is not about
fairness it is it maybe it should be
about access but it is a niche Niche
Niche Niche investing category it is a
niche of a niche of a niche of a niche
most VC firms perform terribly most it
is a terrible investment you will hear
this again and again it is true most VC
firms take have meet with thousands of
Founders and still do terribly they're
still terrible assets right it is a
brutal terrible industry where if you
actually saw the numbers most VC firms
underperform NASDAQ so why would you
invest in Venture if I can buy a QQQ uh
ETF tomorrow and sell it if I don't like
it why would I stick my money in Venture
where I don't get my money back for 12
years it doesn't make it's not fair
there are access issues there are
inequality but the asset itself is so
tiny and Niche it cannot it cannot
create fairness it is it is it is a and
so if your job so so there is a classic
thing in Venture which is the further
you are from obvious the further you are
from privilege and having all the boxes
the further you're going to have to go
to raise Venture Capital it is not fair
but it is also not unfair in the sense
that you don't have the signs it is
unfair like I'm not but but you but if
you get frustrated with it or angry or
you'll get nowhere and but you have to
be honest with yourself you have to say
look this is a little bit unfair
but tell yourself have you checked any
boxes did you put the decade in at slack
right were you the VP of of whatever at
data dog right they deserve something
right I mean maybe not but there's a lot
of data to say that the best VP is a
data dog once in a while build another
data dog okay there is data suggest that
but you don't have any of that right so
it's a come to Jesus thing where again I
want to say it because people feel like
it is unfair and it is and they feel
like it's biased and it it is it's
biased and it's unfair but you
got to understand it's not just a game
when this asset class doesn't outperform
NASDAQ like it understand the flip you
got to understand who's on the other
side of the table even if you don't like
it right and they're they may be making
fees and they may be driving a a fancy
car and that's a different discussion of
how but they're not making a ton of
money and many they're not delivering a
lot of results and so again I say this
just to be helpful that it's it it won I
don't think Venture will get fairer for
preed I don't think Venture will get
fair for folks that don't check any
boxes it sucks but Venture is a business
and here's two last points and I know
Founders don't as Founders especially
haven't gotten this last four or five
years venture capital is a niche Niche
Niche asset class only designed for
outliers it is the job is to find an
outlier it is to find a gitlab it is to
find an OCTA it is to find a stripe it
is to find an algolia that is is the job
the job is not to find a $10 million
exit or a $50 million 100 million or
even a $500 million exit the job is to
find outliers right and uh folks will
take risk if there signs you might be an
outlier right the top engineer at data
dog but if you've got nothing you have
to go further you have to get and and
then again I'll it's not fair but
typically if you're not finding true
Angels if you're not hustling and
finding folks that meet you personally
and love you and say I'll give you 25
Grand I'll give you 50 Grand because I
met this kid I love that happens all the
time right Aaron ly at box couldn't get
anyone to give him a nickel back in the
day but he met Mark cubin and Mark Cuban
gave them $500,000 and said I like these
20-year-old kids right then he got mad
and asked for his money back uh because
he didn't want him to go Enterprise he
thought that was a terrible idea and
when they went from consumer to
Enterprise he asked for his money back
but he liked those kids okay you that's
an angel isn't it yeah um but until then
you got to check at least one box and
that Bo it's a rambling answer I hope
this help for most folks with nothing
with no privilege with no stripe with no
data dog with no YC with no nothing the
box is
revenue the box is revenue and it's 5K
10K Mr if you come here next year and I
know it's hard if you come here next
year with 10K Mr and you're and you're
growing quickly and you do our me of VC
program and you sign up and you share
your numbers in your deck you'll get 20
meetings but that's because you check
the box right and I know it's not fair
but that's what that's your job as a
Founder is to work the system right so
thank you would you be able to accept
our invitation to visit TSA to speak to
minority Founders uh I could when you're
at 10K Mr I will before then I would
waste your time okay thank
you hi we got time for like these
questions but we'll probably have to
wrap after these four thank you hi Jason
I'm a huge fan I've read a lot of your
blogs on hiring the first AE thank you
and first two AES um my question is
you've written a lot about the magical
SDR at some of these early stage
companies and we maybe magical AE more
than the magical SDR but we can talk
about a magical SDR too yeah um my
question is I'm transitioning away from
founder Le sales a million dollar in AR
a million you said yep IDE you would um
I just hired my first AE about 30 days
ago just one and then but the post said
hire two didn't it my plan for the
second one is essentially that Sr that
we hired about a year ago from college
we just really killed it over the last
year promoting him into that AE you got
you have to um is or or she'll quit is
that the second AE or do I need someone
with more sales experience and should I
make it three no you can promote her
okay look I mean look you got first of
all not exactly the question you're
asking you you have to be if you have a
great SDR you got to be communic like I
I think it's a one of the top problems
in SAS structur I've got to rewrite this
is that we don't have a good career path
for sdrs lar is from cloud era I mean
from uh he was a cloud rsr at snowflake
last year he's the head of outbound you
can watch he's been doing outbound since
be he's so great watch his session last
year we've talked a lot about this it's
a he's trying at snowflake now but
there's no great career path the best
SDR should be able to make one 50 180
190 if they can bring in massive
business they should but instead they
all want to quit after 8 months and be
in AE you can't fight it today maybe you
can be the one but you're trying to
fight human nature so when you have a
good SDR you got to be communicating
with them what are your goals and maybe
you ask them to be an SDR for another
quarter or two but most of them
unfortunately and this is why it's
exhausting to build an outbound team the
best ones will wait a year at most so if
she or he is saying I want to be an AE
if you don't give it to them they're
going to quit anyway
so that's your SEC so that's your second
AE yep and and um I think that's fine
for your two and go hire another SDR
that's your ab now the the beauty is
this is great because you're going to
run an AB test you're going to have one
more experienced AE that doesn't know
your company or product then you're
going to have the SDR that probably will
work out but might not but knows the
product hold and you're going to get
your ab test and you'll see how they
perform and you'll do a better job of
hiring three number three or 4 AE based
on the ab test so it's good perfect just
want to clarify thank
you hello thanks for coming thank you
switching tact a little bit I want to
talk about the journey from 10 million
to 100 million okay the inevitable the
inevitable yeah uh you you've alluded a
bit to the difference between seeing
this as a PE backed Journey versus a VC
backed Journey yeah or purely
bootstrapped but yes or purely
bootstrapped so what advice might you
have for someone who has seen this
journey on a PE backed Financial
engineering path a number of times
as a leader in a SAS company and is
considering the VC backed version of
this what are the key differences and
what advice might you
have well there's a lot of nuance for
that that that you and I could talk
about offline but might be too much for
the audience I think look it's the VC
backed at the end of the
day two things about being VC back most
VCS at the end of the day if you give it
your all and make the money they're fine
with the outcome here's the Paradox but
at the same time they only want to
invest in companies think IPO so you
cannot make money and Venture oh thank
you you cannot make money and Venture if
at least per fund you don't have a
couple billion dollar outcomes there's a
few exceptions but as a rough rule not
let's say you do 30 investments in your
Venture fund not all 30 have to IPO but
if a couple don't at least one or two
you'll never triple your money and VC's
if they don't triple their money they
don't get another fund and their
business dies it dies very slowly over a
decade or but they fail they they
eventually lose their job as slowly as a
human can lose their job but you have to
and so you need an IPO or two but so
they're not if you're if you're a good
VC you will not invest in any startup
that you don't think has a shot of iping
or better okay um but but the mistake
they make is as long as you don't raise
too much money and you don't lose your
Investor's money if you've done your
best and you you raise 10 million and
you sell for 20 that's not going to make
the fund but no one's going to be mad at
you if that's the right outcome as long
as they make money okay so that's kind
of like the ground or so then V versus P
it's it's not that simple because P
doesn't do early Investments they don't
do other things but you know don't raise
Venture Capital if you don't want IPO
that's what that's what I'm connecting
don't raise venture capital or at least
let me qualify it with an asteris and a
dagger don't raise more than five to 10
million don't go to the double digits if
you don't want IPO if you raise a seed
round and you don't really want IPO but
you kind of tell the folks you do it's
okay like you it's not that much money
in okay raise 10 million the stakes go
up raise 20 million 30 million um you
know all these unicorns that are
struggling that raised money they're
fraking miserable they're not having fun
they raiseed 200 $300 million and they
have good companies but what if you sell
that company for 300 million it's a
disaster and it's not only a disaster
economically I don't want to run that
company you want to spend 10 years of
your life building a company to 300
million in value but then it you raise
300 million so yeah there's a little
carve out for management but the
employees make nothing the investors
barely make their money back it's so
Crush it's so crushing for the amount of
Our Lives we put into these companies so
only raise double digits a venture if
you're going for IPO if not p is this
fun not fun actually it's not remotely
fun but this unexpected middle ground
that may not be fun but is an offramp
with good liquidity that people don't
realize again my fun case study from
these weeks when Andy from logical sold
for almost 300 million um they gave all
cash no escrow no anything and he just
left the next day they didn't even he's
he's he literally just got back from his
first vacation in 10 years at the one
hotel in kauwaii uh is it great in a
couple years might he look at it and say
you know maybe I wish I was still
runting it maybe we'll see but that's a
total offramp right literally you get
acquired by HubSpot or sales stores
they're going to make you stay three
years and be the SVP of something you
get acquired by P and like they got a
guy down the hall they have a guy it
could be a woman or a man but they
always have a PR down the hall that's
their job to bring in another manager
another and so you may not love it um
but it that's how I would think a found
are you willing to IP commit to IPO and
if not and you raise more than 10
million I think you're going to be
miserable in the
end hey Jason good to see you thanks for
coming thanks uh last time we spoke
after we went through the winter YC
batch we were doing a lot of founder Le
sales yep as we all do we were growing
really quickly and we hired our first
two AES and we sell to construction
companies okay uh and we had a lot of
like struggles teaching them how the
founder Le sales worked and construction
companies don't answer the phone or look
at emails so we tried outside sales
going to construction sites and their
offices and it started to work so how do
we know if we double down on that or
continue down the like inside sales
route well I suspect what happened was
not only were you only doing inside
sales which didn't work you were hiring
like Tech guys that didn't know the
industry and so no one would buy from
them I see this um you certainly see
this in complicated technical products
but actually I see this in vertical sass
all the time which is in vertical SAS
the sales team needs some industry
expertise right in like developer-led
sales if the early Reps don't understand
software they don't understand to build
if they don't understand how to spell
API they can't sell anything there's a
different problem is you take a uh an
Outreach or a gong or these great
companies that know how to that are
salese selling sales tools and you put
them into construction and they just
give the dumbest fraking answers you
know do you like I I need to do this
with loadbearing concrete across this
does it do of course it does that are
you sure what's the what's the amount of
pounds per square foot prefer the seven
and um and and I see what I see again
and again is I see Founders who are
pretty good founder and they hire rep
after rep after rep that worked at
Dropbox or whatever and 100% failure
rate again and again and again and again
and again so if that's what you're
seeing or other folks you're not alone
this is hard you need to either be in
deals with them or get them help or hire
folks we we we we usually over index on
domain expertise it's transferable to
some extent but what's not transferable
is going to something harder and more
complicated to sell it's not
transferable maybe if you came out of
the chemicals industry and you were
really good and you wanted to learn
construction you give them 90 days right
but you really understood the entire
periodic table for sales maybe maybe
construction's easier but we go the
other way right we hire those and it and
it fails and
so now you're finding that field works
and field probably works because that's
where they are but it might also work
because they know the product better
they know the industry better it might
be two factors you're conflating right
but whatever it is you got to do more of
that don't isn't it that simple you got
to do more of that right I but by point
is and maybe we can break on this but I
that first group and again you're not
tons of folks do this they hire the
Dropbox or the the whoever the Rippling
the Checker the cool ones and they all
fail in vertical SAS right you're if you
meet if you if you ask who else is in
vertical SAS like you you're going to
hear the you're going to have a beer
here again you're going to hear the same
story again and again and again and
again how they rip through 10 and they
just you know they were they were nice
like they they went to the customer
dinner and everybody liked Bob or or
Bill or or Ellena or but but they sold
nothing yeah so take the risk on the
construction worker that wants to work
in Tech versus the tech that wants to
sell to that's super risky but I don't
know that you have a choice the only
other choice there's a there's a third
path which for sum is the only answer is
you have to be in every deal if you're
willing to be in every deal you can make
a lot of persona
work that's but and but you know you got
to think about that mhm right
and related to that and then we that's
an option but another point is that so
many folks in vertical SAS leave exit
founder Le sales too early again and
again they exit it too early I'm going
to make up something that I'm not sure
is true but I'm going to do some work
and I think it's right I think if you
exit founder Le sales in vertical sass
before 10 million you
fail you got to suck it up and you got
to find the extra 20 hours a week and I
know you don't have time because you're
doing product and you're doing HR and
you're doing doing this and this and
this you're not going to get it you got
to be you might have to be in every deal
you I know it sucks yeah but you might
have that I see this again and again and
again they leave it too early and yeah
you you know you're selling the sales
tool you get some energy going you hire
a couple folks from gong and SS off you
plug them in maybe you can kind of get
out of a little bit of it never seen it
work in vertical house and wait until
the AES are just efficient before bring
on a VP at 10 million ARR maybe bring in
the a even when you but here's the
Nuance even when you bring in the VP of
sales but still have to be in every deal
even when you bring in the VPS sales
this the relate the real reason Founders
in vertical SAS or complicated SAS the
real reason they fail on the way to all
the way to 10 is they finally hire the
VPS sales and then they exit sales the
VP sales never understands construction
or environmental science or the Deep
weird niches of the contact center they
never understand it and they run the
Jano Playbook is it budgeted um who are
the stakeholders um and it just it
doesn't work and so I would say what
whether you hire the VB sales next week
or in a year or whatever you got to be
in every deal at least think about it
stepping out of the founder Le sales
leads to just a plane crashing to the
ground in vertical sass so thank you
thank
you hey Jason thanks this is my second
saster annual it's been amazing good to
hear yeah so my name is David I'm the
CEO of Fondo we make it easy for
startups to file their taxes good that's
what we all want easier taxes right can
you can you get rid of our taxes too
have you developed that product up to
this is the first time I've actually
ever paid taxes and uh it's not fun yeah
it's not we can help you get money back
so okay um but you've talked a lot about
the IPO window opening up again in 2024
and which is really exciting especially
a l of us who might be raising money or
thinking about it like what is our
valuation what should we expect it to be
well you're not going to like the
valuation impact so was say what do you
think the multiples will be and and
today will it last look today I I don't
mean to interrupt you them I'll I'll
answer have you can finish and then we
can this will have to be our last one
the IPO W window opening up is going to
be good it's going to mean that VCS will
do more deals it's going to mean LPS who
are the limited partners that give VCS
will give them more money because this
last year was the driest year ever for
VC's giving money back to LPS BCS
basically have 10 years to give the
money back and more H but it es and
flows 2021 into early 22 was a record of
money that went back out the last 12
months were a low Point money is not did
not flow back and it's all this great
you can even be cynical about it it's
all this great recycling right the LPS
give the VC's money the VCS give the
startups money the startups have
liquidity the VCS take 20% off
themselves they give 80% to the LPS then
the LPS give it all back to the VCS and
it's this virtuous circle but for the
last the YPO Market's been closed for 24
months so the virtuous circle is broken
right now so when it reopens liquidity
will follow VCS will get more money to
invest but if if public the average
company's trading at 6X AR it's not
going to inflate valuations it's going
to create more appetite for VCS to do
deals but it only at the margin will it
increase valuations only at the margin
only where there's like hysteria to
invest like certain AI deals but other
than that unless there's massive
competition valuations will remain
mediocre and what what what do you think
it'll be the biggest impact in the
multiples once companies start going
public look our job listen you know I
got to be honest I I've been I was a
founder for over a decade and I've been
investing for a decade too I didn't even
look at public multiples until like 2021
because I I basically just my whole life
in SAS I basically decid all of us that
came up early we basically came up with
the basic rule which is that public
markets went up and down they were
pretty crappy for a while but good
startups were always valued at 10x ARR
not forward multiple not this or that
but when I did Adobe sign EO sign when
David did Yammer that was early when
Renee did bill.com we all kind of came
up together when Peter did uh Viva
everything was like it was either
nothing or 10x and once in a while
there'd be a rare one that was so off
the charts but but like it was it was
very flat actually it was either like
you couldn't get funded and if you were
in this very elite group like it was
always 10x right and um maybe because
I'm tired I'm actually losing track of
my question for the first time today uh
I think that's kind of the world we're
going to be in again like the multi the
public multi are at 6X startups don't
have to be at 6X but everything's
outside of you know some some great
stuff in the YC batches that's the world
you're going to live in it's a it's back
to a 10x World unless you're a crazy
outlier right thank you okay thanks
everybody really appreciate it thanks
for coming this year London in June and
back here in September so thank you
really appreciate
[Applause]
it
[Music]
n